# 0.2.9

This update mainly covers the following topics:
* Moved classes/methods related to augmentable data to their own modules.
* Added polygon augmentation methods.
* Added line strings and line string augmentation methods.
* Added easier augmentation interuigllllllllllllllllllllllll
## New 'augmentables' Modules

For the Polygon and Line String augmentation, new classes and methods had to be
added. The previous file for that was `imgaug/imgaug.py`, which however was
already fairly large. Therefore, all classes and methods related to augmentable
data were split off and moved to `imgaug/augmentables/<type>.py`. The new
modules and their main contents are:
* `imgaug.augmentables.batches`: Contains `Batch`, `UnnormalizedBatch`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.utils`: Contains utility functions.
* `imgaug.augmentables.bbs`: Contains `BoundingBox`, `BoundingBoxesOnImage`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.kps`: Contains `Keypoint`, `KeypointsOnImage`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.polys`: Contains `Polygon`, `PolygonsOnImage`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.lines`: Contains `LineString`, `LineStringsOnImage`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.heatmaps`: Contains `HeatmapsOnImage`.
* `imgaug.augmentables.segmaps`: Contains `SegmentationMapOnImage`.

Currently, all augmentable classes can still be created via `imgaug.<type>`,
e.g. `imgaug.BoundingBox` still works.

Changes related to the new modules:
* Moved `Keypoint`, `KeypointsOnImage` and `imgaug.imgaug.compute_geometric_median` to `augmentables/kps.py`.
* Moved `BoundingBox`, `BoundingBoxesOnImage` to `augmentables/bbs.py`.
* Moved `Polygon`, `PolygonsOnImage` and related classes/functions to `augmentables/polys.py`.
* Moved `HeatmapsOnImage` to `augmentables/heatmaps.py`.
* Moved `SegmentationMapOnImage` to `augmentables/segmaps.py`.
* Moved `Batch` to `augmentables/batches.py`.
* Added module `imgaug.augmentables.utils`.
    * Added function `normalize_shape()`.
    * Added function `project_coords()`.
* Moved line interpolation functions `_interpolate_points()`, `_interpolate_point_pair()` and `_interpolate_points_by_max_distance()` to `imgaug.augmentables.utils` and made them public functions.
* Refactored `__init__()` of `PolygonsOnImage`, `BoundingBoxesOnImage`, `KeypointsOnImage` to make use of `imgaug.augmentables.utils.normalize_shape()`.
* Refactored `KeypointsOnImage.on()` to use `imgaug.augmentables.utils.normalize_shape()`.
* Refactored `Keypoint.project()` to use `imgaug.augmentables.utils.project_coords()`.

## Polygon Augmentation

Polygons were already part of `imgaug` for quite a while, but couldn't be
augmented yet. This version adds methods to perform such augmentations.
It also makes some changes to the `Polygon` class, see the list of changes
below.

Example for polygon augmentation:
```python
import imgaug as ia
import imgaug.augmenters as iaa
from imgaug.augmentables.polys import Polygon, PolygonsOnImage

image = ia.quokka(size=0.2)
psoi = PolygonsOnImage([
    Polygon([(0, 0), (20, 0), (20, 20)])
], shape=image.shape)

image_aug, psoi_aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=45).augment(
    images=[image],
    polygons=[psoi]
)
```

See [imgaug-doc/notebooks](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug-doc/tree/master/notebooks)
for a jupyter notebook with many more examples.

Changes related to polygon augmentation:
* Added `_ConcavePolygonRecoverer` to `imgaug.augmentables.polys`.
* Added `PolygonsOnImage` to `imgaug.augmentables.polys`.
* Added polygon augmentation methods:
    * Added `augment_polygons()` to `Augmenter`.
    * Added `_augment_polygons()` to `Augmenter`.
    * Added `_augment_polygons_as_keypoints()` to `Augmenter`.
    * Added argument `polygons` to `imgaug.augmentables.batches.Batch`.
    * Added attributes `polygons_aug` and `polygons_unaug` to `imgaug.augmentables.batches.Batch`.
    * Added polygon handling to `Augmenter.augment_batches()`.
* Added property `Polygon.height`.
* Added property `Polygon.width`.
* Added method `Polygon.to_keypoints()`.
* Added optional drawing of corner points to `Polygon.draw_on_image()` and `PolygonsOnImage.draw_on_image()`.
* Added argument `raise_if_too_far_away=True` to `Polygon.change_first_point_by_coords()`.
* Added `imgaug.quokka_polygons()` function to generate example polygon data.
* [rarely breaking] `Polygon.draw_on_image()`, `PolygonsOnImage.draw_on_image()`
    * Refactored to make partial use `LineString` methods.
    * Added arguments `size` and `size_perimeter` to control polygon line thickness.
    * Renamed arguments `alpha_perimeter` to `alpha_line`, `color_perimeter` to `color_line` to align with `LineStrings`.
    * Renamed arguments `alpha_fill` to `alpha_face` and `color_fill` to `color_face`.
* [rarely breaking] Changed the output of `Polygon.clip_out_of_image()` from `MultiPolygon` to `list` of `Polygon`.
  This breaks for anybody who has already used `Polygon.clip_out_of_image()`.
* Changed `Polygon.exterior_almost_equals()` to accept lists of tuples as argument `other_polygon`.
* Changed arguments `color` and `alpha` in `Polygon.draw_on_image()` and `PolygonsOnImage.draw_on_image()` to represent
  the general color and alpha of the polygon. The colors/alphas of the inner area, perimeter and points are derived from
  `color` and `alpha` (unless `color_inner`, `color_perimeter` or `color_points` are set (analogous for alpha)).
* Refactored `Polygon.project()` to use `LineString.project()`.
* Refactored `Polygon.shift()` to use `LineString.shift()`.
* [rarely breaking] `Polygon.exterior_almost_equals()`, `Polygon.almost_equals()`
    * Refactored to make use of `LineString.coords_almost_equals()`.
    * Renamed argument `interpolate` to `points_per_edge`.
    * Renamed argument `other_polygon` to `other`.
* Renamed `color_line` to `color_lines`, `alpha_line` to `alpha_lines` in `Polygon.draw_on_image()` and `PolygonsOnImage.draw_on_image()`.
* Fixed `Polygon.clip_out_of_image(image)` not handling `image` being a tuple.
* Fixed `Polygon.is_out_of_image()` falsely only checking the corner points of the polygon.

## LineString Augmentation

This version adds Line String augmentation. Line Strings are simply lines made
up of consecutive corner points that are connected by straight lines.
Line strings have similarity with polygons, but do not have a filled inner area
and are not closed (i.e. first and last coordinate differ).

Similar to other augmentables, line string are represented with the classes
`LineString(<iterable of xy-coords>)` and
`LineStringsOnImage(<iterable of LineString>, <shape of image>)`.
They are augmented e.g. via `Augmenter.augment_line_strings(<iterable of LineStringsOnImage>)`
or `Augmenter.augment(images=..., line_strings=...)`.

Example:
```python
import imgaug as ia
import imgaug.augmenters as iaa
from imgaug.augmentables.lines import LineString, LineStringsOnImage

image = ia.quokka(size=0.2)
lsoi = LineStringsOnImage([
    LineString([(0, 0), (20, 0), (20, 20)])
], shape=image.shape)

image_aug, lsoi_aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=45).augment(
    images=[image],
    line_strings=[lsoi]
)
```

See [imgaug-doc/notebooks](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug-doc/tree/master/notebooks)
for a jupyter notebook with many more examples.

## Simplified Augmentation Interface

Augmentation of different data corresponding to the same image(s) has been
a bit convoluted in the past, as each data type had to be augmented on its own.
E.g. to augment an image and its bounding boxes, one had to first switch the
augmenters to deterministic mode, then augment the images, then the bounding
boxes. This version adds methods that perform these steps in one call.
Specifically, `Augmenter.augment(...)` is used for that, which has the alias
`Augmenter.__call__(...)`. One argument can be used for each augmentable,
e.g. `bounding_boxes=<bounding box data>`.
Example:
```python
import imgaug as ia
import imgaug.augmenters as iaa
from imgaug.augmentables.kps import Keypoint, KeypointsOnImage

image = ia.quokka(size=0.2)
kpsoi = KeypointsOnImage([Keypoint(x=0, y=10), Keypoint(x=10, y=5)],
                         shape=image.shape)

image_aug, kpsoi_aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45, 45)).augment(
    image=image,
    keypoints=kpsoi
)
```
This will automatically make sure that image and keypoints are rotated by
corresponding amounts.

Normalization methods have been added to that class, which allow it to
process many more different inputs than just variations of `*OnImage`.
Example:
```python
import imgaug as ia
import imgaug.augmenters as iaa

image = ia.quokka(size=0.2)
kps = [(0, 10), (10, 5)]

image_aug, kps_aug = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45, 45)).augment(
    image=image, keypoints=kps)
```
Examples for other inputs that are automatically handled by `augment()`:
* Integer arrays as segmentation maps.
* Float arrays for heatmaps.
* `list([N,4] ndarray)` for bounding boxes. (One list for images,
  then `N` bounding boxes in `(x1,y1,x2,y2)` form.)
* `list(list(list(tuple)))` for line strings. (One list for images,
  one list for line strings on the image, one list for coordinates within
  the line string. Each tuple must contain two values for xy-coordinates.)
* `list(list(imgaug.augmentables.polys.Polygon))` for polygons.
  Note that this "skips" `imgaug.augmentables.polys.PolygonsOnImage`.

In **python <3.6**, `augment()` is limited to a maximum of two
inputs/outputs *and* if two inputs/outputs are used, then one of them must be
image data *and* such (augmented) image data will always be returned first,
independent of the argument's order.
E.g. `augment(line_strings=<data>, polygons=<data>)` would be invalid due to
not containing image data. `augment(polygons=<data>, images=<data>)` would
still return the images first, even though they are the second argument.

In **python >=3.6**, `augment()` may be called with more than two
arguments and will respect their order.
Example:
```python
import numpy as np
import imgaug as ia
import imgaug.augmenters as iaa

image = ia.quokka(size=0.2)
kps = [(0, 10), (10, 5)]
heatmap = np.zeros((image.shape[0], image.shape[1]), dtype=np.float32)
rotate = iaa.Affine(rotate=(-45, 45))

heatmaps_aug, images_aug, kps_aug = rotate(
    heatmaps=[heatmap],
    images=[image],
    keypoints=[kps]
)
```

To use more than two inputs/outputs in python <3.6, add the argument `return_batch=True`,
which will return an instance of `imgaug.augmentables.batches.UnnormalizedBatch`.

Changes related to the augmentation interface:
* Added `Augmenter.augment()` method.
* Added `Augmenter.augment_batch()` method.
    * This method is now called by `Augmenter.augment_batches()` and multicore routines.
* Added `imgaug.augmentables.batches.UnnormalizedBatch`.
* Added module `imgaug.augmentables.normalization` for data normalization routines.
* Changed `augment_batches()`:
  * Accepts now `UnnormalizedBatch` as input. It is automatically normalized before augmentation and unnormalized afterwards.
    This allows to use `Batch` instances with non-standard datatypes.
  * Accepts now single instances of `Batch` (and `UnnormalizedBatch`).
  * The input may now also be a generator.
  * The input may now be any iterable instead of just list (arrays or strings are not allowed).
* Marked support for non-`Batch` (and non-`UnnormalizedBatch`) inputs to `augment_batches()` as deprecated.
* Refactored `Batch.deepcopy()`
    * Does no longer verify attribute datatypes.
    * Allows now to directly change attributes of created copies, e.g. via `batch.deepcopy(images_aug=...)`.

## Other Additions, Changes and Refactorings

Keypoint augmentation
* Added method `Keypoint.draw_on_image()`.
* [mildly breaking] Added an `alpha` argument to `KeypointsOnImage.draw_on_image()`. This can break code that relied on
  the order of arguments of the method (though will usually only have visual consequences).
* `KeypointsOnImage` and `Keypoint` copying:
    * Added optional arguments `keypoints` and `shape` to `KeypointsOnImage.deepcopy()`.
    * Added optional arguments `keypoints` and `shape` to `KeypointsOnImage.copy()`.
    * Added method `Keypoint.copy()`.
    * Added method `Keypoint.deepcopy()`.
        * Refactored methods in `Keypoint` to use `deepcopy()` to create copies of itself (instead of instantiating new instances via `Keypoint(...)`).
    * `KeypointsOnImage.deepcopy()` now uses `Keypoint.deepcopy()` to create Keypoint copies, making it more flexible.
    * Refactored `KeypointsOnImage` to use `KeypointsOnImage.deepcopy()` in as many methods as possible to create copies of itself.
    * Refactored `Affine`, `AffineCv2`, `PiecewiseAffine`, `PerspectiveTransform`, `ElasticTransformation`, `Rot90` to use `KeypointsOnImage.deepcopy()` and `Keypoint.deepcopy()` during keypoint augmentation.
* Changed `Keypoint.draw_on_image()` to draw a rectangle for the keypoint so long as *any* part of that rectangle is within the image plane.
  (Previously, the rectangle was only drawn if the integer xy-coordinate of the point was inside the image plane.)
* Changed `KeypointsOnImage.draw_on_image()` to raise an error if an input image has shape `(H,W)`.
* Changed `KeypointsOnImage.draw_on_image()` to handle single-number inputs for `color`.
* `KeypointsOnImage.from_coords_array()`
    * Marked as deprecated.
    * Renamed to `from_xy_array()`.
    * Renamed arg `coords` to `xy`.
    * Changed the method from `staticmethod` to `classmethod`.
    * Refactored to make code simpler.
* `KeypointsOnImage.get_coords_array()`
    * Marked as deprecated.
    * Renamed to `to_xy_array()`.
* Refactored `KeypointsOnImage.draw_on_image()` to use `Keypoint.draw_on_image()`.

Heatmap augmentation
* Changed `Affine`, `PiecewiseAffine`, `ElasticTransformation` to always use `order=3` for heatmap augmentation.
* Changed check in `HeatmapsOnImage` that validates whether the input array is within the desired value range `[min_value, max_value]`
  from a hard exception to a soft warning (with clipping). Also improved the error message a bit.

Deprecation warnings:
* Added `imgaug.imgaug.DeprecationWarning`. The builtin python `DeprecationWarning` is silent since 2.7, which is why now a separate deprecation warning is used.
* Added `imgaug.imgaug.warn_deprecated()`.
    * Refactored deprecation warnings to use this function.
* Added `imgaug.imgaug.deprecated` decorator.
    * Refactored deprecation warnings to use this decorator.

Bounding Boxes:
* Added to `BoundingBox.extract_from_image()` the arguments `pad` and `pad_max`.
* Changed `BoundingBox.contains()` to also accept `Keypoint`.
* Changed `BoundingBox.project(from, to)` to also accept images instead of shapes.
* Renamed argument `thickness` in `BoundingBox.draw_on_image()` to `size` in order to match the name used for keypoints, polygons and line strings.
  The argument `thickness` will still be accepted, but raises a deprecation warning.
* Renamed argument `thickness` in `BoundingBoxesOnImage.draw_on_image()` to `size` in order to match the name used for keypoints, polygons and line strings.
  The argument `thickness` will still be accepted, but raises a deprecation warning.
* Refactored `BoundingBox` to reduce code repetition.
* Refactored `BoundingBox.extract_from_image()`. Improved some code fragments that looked wrong.
* Refactored `BoundingBoxesOnImage.draw_on_image()` to improve efficiency by evading unnecessary array copies.

Other:
* [rarely breaking] Added arguments `cval` and `mode` to `PerspectiveTransform` (PR #301).
  This breaks code that relied on the order of the arguments and used `keep_size`, `name`, `deterministic` or `random_state` as positional arguments.
* Added `dtypes.clip_()` function.
* Added function `imgaug.imgaug.flatten()` that flattens nested lists/tuples.
* Changed `PerspectiveTransform` to ensure minimum height and width of output images (by default `2x2`).
  This prevents errors in polygon augmentation (possibly also in keypoint augmentation).
* Refactored `imgaug.augmenters.blend.blend_alpha()` to no longer enforce a channel axis for foreground and background image.
* Refactored `imgaug/parameters.py` to reorder classes within the file.
* Re-allowed numpy 1.16 in `requirements.txt`.


## Fixes

* Fixed possible crash in `blend.blend_alpha()` if dtype numpy.float128 does not exist.
* Fixed a crash in `ChangeColorspace` when `cv2.COLOR_Lab2RGB` was actually called `cv2.COLOR_LAB2RGB` in the local OpenCV installation (analogous for BGR). (PR #263)
* Fixed `ReplaceElementwise` always sampling replacement per channel.
* Fixed an error in `draw_text()` due to arrays that could not be set to writeable after drawing the text via PIL.
* Fixed errors in docstring of `parameters.Subtract`.
* Fixed a division by zero bug in `angle_between_vectors()`.
* Augmentation of empty `KeypointsOnImage` instances
    * Fixed `Rot90` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `Affine` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `PerspectiveTransform` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `Resize` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `CropAndPad` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty. (Same for `Crop`, `Pad`.)
    * Fixed `PadToFixedSize` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `CropToFixedSize` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
    * Fixed `KeepSizeByResize` not changing `KeypointsOnImage.shape` if `.keypoints` was empty.
* Fixed `Affine` heatmap augmentation producing arrays with values outside the range `[0.0, 1.0]` when `order` was set to `3`.
* Fixed `PiecewiseAffine` heatmap augmentation producing arrays with values outside the range `[0.0, 1.0]` when `order` was set to `3`.
* Fixed assert in `SegmentationMapOnImage` falsely checking if max class index is `<= nb_classes` instead of `< nb_classes`.
* Fixed an issue in `dtypes.clip_to_value_range_()` and `dtypes.restore_dtypes_()` causing errors when clip value range exceeded array dtype's value range.
* Fixed an issue in `dtypes.clip_to_value_range_()` and `dtypes.restore_dtypes_()` when the input array was scalar, i.e. had shape `()`.
* Fixed a Permission Denied error when using `JpegCompression` on windows (possibly also affected other systems). #297
