# 0.3.0 - Summary Of Changes

## Improved Segmentation Map Augmentation (#302)

The segmentation map augmentation was previously previously a wrapper
around heatmap augmentation. This patch introduces independent methods
for segmentation map augmentation. This makes the augmentation of such
inputs faster and more memory efficient. The internal representation (int
instead of floats) also becomes more intuitive.

This improvement leads to some **breaking changes**. To adapt to the new
version, the following steps should be sufficient for most users:

* Rename all calls of `SegmentationMapOnImage` to `SegmentationMapsOnImage`
  (Map -> Maps).
* Rename all calls of `SegmentationMapsOnImage.get_arr_int()` to
  `SegmentationMapsOnImage.get_arr()`.
* Remove the argument `nb_classes` from all calls of `SegmentationMapsOnImage`.
* Remove the argument `background_threshold` from all
  calls as it is no longer supported.
* Remove the argument `draw_foreground_mask` from all calls of
  `SegmentationMapsOnImage.draw_on_image()` as it is no longer supported.
* Ensure that the input array to `SegmentationMapsOnImage` is always an
  int-like (int, uint or bool). Float arrays are now deprecated.
* Adapt all calls `SegmentationMapsOnImage.draw()` and
  `SegmentationMapsOnImage.draw_on_image()`, as both of these now return a
  list of drawn images instead of a single array. (For a segmentation map
  array of shape `(H,W,C)` they return `C` drawn images. In most cases `C=1`,
  so simply call `draw()[0]` or `draw_on_image()[0]`.)
* Ensure that if `SegmentationMapsOnImage.arr` is accessed anywhere, the
  respective code can handle the new `int32` `(H,W,#maps)` array form.
  Previously, it was `float32` and the channel-axis had the same size as the
  max class id (+1) that could appear in the map.
* Ensure that calls of `<augmenter>.augment()` or `<augmenter>()` that
  provide segmentation maps as numpy arrays (i.e. bypassing
  `SegmentationMapsOnImage`) use the shape `(N,H,W,#maps)` as
  `(N,H,W)` is no longer supported.


## New RNG System (#375, #408)

numpy 1.17 introduces a new API for random number generation. This patch
adapts `imgaug` to automatically use the new API if it is available and
fall back to the old one otherwise. To achieve that, the module
`imgaug.random` is introduced, containing the new standard random number
generator `imgaug.random.RNG`. You can create a new RNG using a seed value
via `RNG(seed)` and it will take care of the rest. It supports all sampling
functions that `numpy.random.RandomState` and `numpy.random.Generator`
support. This new random number generator is now supposed to be used
wherever previously `numpy.random.RandomState` would have been used.
(For most users, this shouldn't change anything. Integer seeds are
still supported. If you used `RandomState` anywhere, that is also still
supported.) 


**Breaking changes** related to this patch:
* imgaug now uses a different seed at each run of the library. Previously,
  a fixed seed was used for each run, leading to the same agumentations. That
  confused some users as it differed from numpy's behaviour.
  The new "dynamic" seed is derived from numpy's seed and hence seeding numpy
  will also lead to imgaug being seeded. (It is not recommended to rely on
  that behaviour as it might be changed in the future. Use
  `imgaug.random.seed()` to set a custom seed.)
* The constants `imgaug.SEED_MIN_VALUE` and `imgaug.SEED_MAX_VALUE` were
  removed. They are now in `imgaug.random`.
* The constant `imgaug.CURRENT_RANDOM_STATE` was removed.
  Use `imgaug.random.get_global_rng()` instead.


## Other Changes Related to numpy 1.17 (#302)

numpy 1.17 uses a new implementation of `clip()`, which turns `int64` values
into `float64` values. As a result, it is no longer safe to use `int64` in
many augmenters and other functions/methods and hence these inputs are now
rejected. This affects at least `ReplaceElementwise` and thereby `Dropout`,
`CoarseDropout`, `Salt`, `Pepper`, `SaltAndPepper`, `CoarseSalt`,
`CoarsePepper` and `CoarseSaltAndPepper`. See the ReadTheDocs documentation
page about dtype support for more details.

In relation to this change, parameters in `imgaug.parameters` that previously
returned `int64` were modified to now return `int32` instead. Analogously,
`float64` results were changed to `float32`.


## New Augmenters

The following new augmenters were added to the library:

**Canny edge detection** (#316):
* `imgaug.augmenters.edges.Canny`. Performs canny edge detection and colorizes
  the resulting binary image in random ways.

**Pooling** (#317):
* `imgaug.augmenters.edges.AveragePooling`. Performs average pooling using a
  given kernel size. Very similar to `AverageBlur`.
* `imgaug.augmenters.edges.MaxPooling`. Performs maximum pooling using a
  given kernel size.
* `imgaug.augmenters.edges.MinPooling`. Analogous.
* `imgaug.augmenters.edges.MedianPooling`. Analogous.

**Hue and Saturation** (#210, #319):
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.WithHueAndSaturation`. Apply child augmenters to
  images in `HSV` colorspace. Automatically accounts for the hue being in
  angular representation.
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.AddToHue`. Adds a defined value to the hue of each
  pixel in input images.
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.AddToSaturation`. Adds a defined value to the
  saturation of each pixel in input images. 
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.MultiplyHueAndSaturation`. Multiplies the hue and/or
  saturation of all pixels in input images.
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.MultiplyHue`. Analogous, affects always only the hue.
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.MultiplySaturation`. Analogous, affects always only
  the saturation.

**Color Quantization** (#347):
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.UniformColorQuantization`. Uniformly splits all
  possible colors into `N` different ones, then finds for each pixel in an
  image among the `N` colors the most similar one and replaces that pixel's
  color with the quantized color. 
* `imgaug.augmenters.color.KMeansColorQuantization`. Groups all colors in an
  each into `N` different ones using k-Means clustering. Then replaces each
  pixel'S color, analogously to `UniformColorQuantization`.

**Voronoi** (#348):
* `imgaug.augmenters.segmentation.Voronoi`. Queries a point sampler to
  generate a large number of `(x,y)` coordinates on an image. Each such
  coordinate becomes a voronoi cell. All pixels within the voronoi cell
  are replaced by their average color. (Similar to `Superpixels`, this
  augmenter also supports to only replace `p%` of all cells with their
  average color.)
* `imgaug.augmenters.segmentation.UniformVoronoi`. Shortcut to call `Voronoi`
  with a uniform points sampler. That sampler places `N` points on an image
  using uniform distributions (i.e. they are randomly spread over the image.)
* `imgaug.augmenters.segmentation.RegularGridVoronoi`. Shortcut to call
  `Voronoi` with a regular grid points sampler. That points sampler generates
  coordinate on a regular grid with `H` rows and `W` cols. Some of these points
  can be randomly dropped to generate a less regular pattern.
* `imgaug.augmenters.segmentation.RelativeRegularGridVoronoi`. Same as
  `RegularGridVoronoi`, but instead of using absolute numbers for `H` and `W`,
  they are defined as relative amounts w.r.t. image shapes, leading to more
  rows/cols on larger images.


## New Augmentation Functions

One of the long term goals of the library is to move as much augmentation
logic as possible out of `Augmenter` instances and into functions. This
patch therefore adds several new augmentation functions:
* `imgaug.min_pool()`. #369
* `imgaug.median_pool()`. #369
* `augmenters.segmentation.segment_voronoi()`. #348
* `augmenters.flip.fliplr()`. #385
* `augmenters.flip.flipud()`. #385
* `augmenters.color.change_colorspace_()`. #409
* `augmenters.color.change_colorspace_batch_()`. #409
* `augmenters.arithmetic.add_scalar()`. #411
* `augmenters.arithmetic.add_elementwise()`. #411
* `augmenters.arithmetic.replace_elementwise_()`. #411
* `augmenters.arithmetic.compress_jpg()`. #411


## Colorspace Changes (#409)

The color space naming within the library had become rather messy in the
past as there were many colorspace-related augmenters, with some of them
not using constants for colorspace names/IDs and others defining their own
ones. This patch introduces a unified colorspace naming system for which the
following constants were added:
* `imgaug.CSPACE_RGB` 
* `imgaug.CSPACE_BGR`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_GRAY`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_CIE`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_YCrCb`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_HSV`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_HLS`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_Lab`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_Luv`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_YUV`
* `imgaug.CSPACE_ALL`

All colorspace-related augmenters should now support these constants.

Additionally, support for rarely used colorspaces -- mainly `CIE`, `YCrCb`,
`Luv` and `YUV` -- was previously unverified or non-existent. These colorspaces
are now tested for the underlying transformation functions and should be
supported by most colorspace-related augmenters. (Some augmenters may still
define their own subset of actually sensible colorspaces and only accept
these.)


## output_buffer_size (#305, #417)

`imgaug.multicore.Pool` now supports in the methods `imap_batches()` and
`imap_batches_unordered()` the argument `output_buffer_size`, which controls
how many batches there are allowed to be anywhere in the augmentation
pipeline (i.e. "loaded and waiting", "in augmentation", "augmented and
waiting"). It denotes the *total* number over *all* processes. Setting this
argument to an integer value avoids situations where `Pool` eats up all the
available memory when the data loading and augmentation is faster than
the training can process new batches.

`Augmenter.augment_batches()` now uses a default value of `10*C`
for `output_buffer_size`, where `C` is the number of available logical CPU
cores.


## Performance Related Changes

The algorithms for `Fliplr` and `Flipud` were reworked to be as fast as
possible. In practice this should have no noticeable effects as both augmenters
were already very fast. (#385)

Furthermore, all assert statements within the library were changed from
`do_assert()` to standard `assert` statements. This is a bit less secure
(as `assert` statements can be optimized away), but should have a small
positive impact on the performance. (#387)

Large parts of the library were also refactored to reduce code duplication
and decrease the complexity of many functions. This should make future
improvements easier, but is expected to have a very small negative impact on
the performance due to an increased number of function calls.
It is also expected that numpy 1.17 can make some operations slower. This
is because (a) creating and copying random number generaters has become slower
and (b) `clip()` overall seems to be slower.


## Improved Error Messages (#366, #367, #387)

imgaug uses quite many `assert` statements and other checks on input data
to fail early instead of late. This is supposed to improve usability, but that
goal was not always reached as many errors had no associated error
messages. This patch changes that. Now, all `assert` statements and other
checks have an associated error message. This should protect users from having
to wade through the library's code in order to understand the root cause of
errors.


## (Almost) All Augmenters Are Now Classes (#396) 

Some augmenters were previously defined as functions returning other
augmenters with appropriate settings. This could lead to confusing effects,
where seemingly instantiating an augmenters would lead to the instantiation
of a completely different augmenter. Hence, most of these augmenters were
switched from functions to classes. (The classes are now inheriting from the
previously returned augmenters, i.e. `instanceof` checks should still work.)
This affects: `AdditiveGaussianNoise`, `AdditiveLaplaceNoise`,
`AdditivePoissonNoise`, `Dropout`, `CoarseDropout`, `ImpulseNoise`,
`SaltAndPepper`, `CoarseSaltAndPepper`, `Salt`, `CoarseSalt`, `Pepper`,
`CoarsePepper`, `SimplexNoiseAlpha`, `FrequencyNoiseAlpha`, `MotionBlur`,
`MultiplyHueAndSaturation`, `MultiplyHue`, `MultiplySaturation`, `AddToHue`,
`AddToSaturation`, `Grayscale`, `GammaContrast`, `SigmoidContrast`,
`LogContrast`, `LinearContrast`, `Sharpen`, `Emboss`, `EdgeDetect`,
`DirectedEdgeDetect`, `OneOf`, `AssertLambda`, `AssertShape`, `Pad`, `Crop`,
`Clouds`, `Fog` and `Snowflakes`.

Not yet switched are: `InColorspace` (deprecated),
`ContrastNormalization` (deprecated), `HorizontalFlip` (pure alias
for `Fliplr`), `VerticalFlip` (pure alias for `Flipud`)
and `Scale` (deprecated).


## Other New Functions

The following (public) functions were added to the library (not listing
functions that were already mentioned above):
* Added `imgaug.is_np_scalar()`. #366
* Added `dtypes.normalize_dtypes()`. #366
* Added `dtypes.normalize_dtype()`. #366
* Added `dtypes.change_dtypes_()`. #366
* Added `dtypes.change_dtype_()`. #366
* Added `dtypes.increase_itemsize_of_dtype()`. #366
* Added `imgaug.warn()` function. #367
* Added `imgaug.compute_paddings_to_reach_multiples_of()`. #369
* Added `imgaug.pad_to_multiples_of()`. #369
* Added `augmentables.utils.copy_augmentables`. #410
* Added `validation.convert_iterable_to_string_of_types()`. #413
* Added `validation.is_iterable_of()`. #413
* Added `validation.assert_is_iterable_of()`. #413
* Added `random.supports_new_rng_style()`. #375
* Added `random.get_global_rng()`. #375
* Added `random.seed()`. #375
* Added `random.normalize_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.normalize_generator_()`. #375
* Added `random.convert_seed_to_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.convert_seed_sequence_to_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.create_pseudo_random_generator_()`. #375
* Added `random.create_fully_random_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.generate_seed_()`. #375
* Added `random.generate_seeds_()`. #375
* Added `random.copy_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.copy_generator_unless_global_generator()`. #375
* Added `random.reset_generator_cache_()`. #375
* Added `random.derive_generator_()`. #375
* Added `random.derive_generators_()`. #375
* Added `random.get_generator_state()`. #375
* Added `random.set_generator_state_()`. #375
* Added `random.is_generator_equal_to()`. #375
* Added `random.advance_generator_()`. #375
* Added `random.polyfill_integers()`. #375
* Added `random.polyfill_random()`. #375


## Other New Classes and Interfaces

The following (public) classes were added (not listing classes that were
already mentioned above):
* Added `augmenters.edges.IBinaryImageColorizer`. #316
* Added `augmenters.edges.RandomColorsBinaryImageColorizer`. #316
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.IPointsSampler`. #348
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.RegularGridPointsSampler`. #348
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.RelativeRegularGridPointsSampler`. #348
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.DropoutPointsSampler`. #348
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.UniformPointsSampler`. #348 
* Added `augmenters.segmentation.SubsamplingPointsSampler`. #348
* Added `testutils.ArgCopyingMagicMock`. #413

The image colorization is used for `Canny` to turn binary images into color
images.
The points samplers are currently used within `Voronoi`.


## Refactorings

Due to fast growth of the library in the past, a significant amount of messy
code had accumulated. To fix that, a lot of time was spend to refactor the code
throughout the whole library to reduce code duplication and improve the
general quality. This also included a rewrite of many outdated docstrings.
There is still quite some mess remaining, but the current state should make
it somewhat easier to add future improvements.

As part of the refactorings, a few humongously large unittests were also
split up into many smaller tests. The library has now around 3000
unique unittests (i.e. each unittest function is counted once, even it is
called many times with different parameters). 

Related PRs:
 * #302, #319, #328, #329, #330, #331, #332, #333, #334, #335, #336, #351,
   #352, #353, #354, #355, #356, #359, #362, #366, #367, #368, #369, #389,
   #397, #401, #402, #403, #407, #409, #410, #411, #413, #419


## Deprecated

The following functions/classes/arguments are now deprecated:
* Function `imgaug.augmenters.meta.clip_augmented_image_`.
  Use `imgaug.dtypes.clip_()` or `numpy.clip()` instead. #398
* Function `imgaug.augmenters.meta.clip_augmented_image`.
  Use `imgaug.dtypes.clip_()` or `numpy.clip()` instead. #398
* Function `imgaug.augmenters.meta.clip_augmented_images_`.
  Use `imgaug.dtypes.clip_()` or `numpy.clip()` instead. #398
* Function `imgaug.augmenters.meta.clip_augmented_images`.
  Use `imgaug.dtypes.clip_()` or `numpy.clip()` instead. #398
* Function `imgaug.normalize_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.normalize_generator` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.current_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.get_global_rng` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.new_random_state`.
  Use class `imgaug.random.RNG` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.dummy_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.RNG(1)` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.copy_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.copy_generator` instead.
* Function `imgaug.derive_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.derive_generator_` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.normalize_random_states`.
  Use `imgaug.random.derive_generators_` instead. #375
* Function `imgaug.forward_random_state`.
  Use `imgaug.random.advance_generator_` instead. #375
* Augmenter `imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.ContrastNormalization`.
  Use `imgaug.augmenters.contrast.LinearContrast` instead. #396
* Argument `X` in `imgaug.augmentables.kps.compute_geometric_median()`.
  Use argument `points` instead. #402
* Argument `cval` in `imgaug.pool()`, `imgaug.avg_pool()` and
  `imgaug.max_pool()`. Use `pad_cval` instead. #369


## Dependencies

The following changes were made to the dependencies of the library:
* Increased minimum version requirement for `scikit-image` to
  `0.14.2`. #377, #399
* Changed dependency `opencv-python` to `opencv-python-headless`.
  This should improve support for some system without GUIs. #324
* Added dependency `pytest-subtests` for the library's unittests. #366


## conda-forge

The library was added to `conda-forge` so that it can now be installed via
`conda install imgaug`. (The conda-forge channel must be added first,
see installation docs or README.) #320 #339


## Fixes

* Fixed an issue with `Polygon.clip_out_of_image()`,
  which would lead to exceptions if a polygon had overlap with an image,
  but not a single one of its points was inside that image plane. 
* Fixed `multicore` methods falsely not accepting
  `augmentables.batches.UnnormalizedBatch`.
* `Rot90` now uses subpixel-based coordinate remapping.
  I.e. any coordinate `(x, y)` will be mapped to `(H-y, x)` for a rotation by
  90deg.
  Previously, an integer-based remapping to `(H-y-1, x)` was used.
  Coordinates are e.g. used by keypoints, bounding boxes or polygons.
* `augmenters.arithmetic.Invert`
    * [rarely breaking] If `min_value` and/or `max_value` arguments were
      set, `uint64` is no longer a valid input array dtype for `Invert`.
      This is due to a conversion to `float64` resulting in loss of resolution.
    * Fixed `Invert` in rare cases restoring dtypes improperly.
* Fixed `dtypes.gate_dtypes()` crashing if the input was one or more numpy
  scalars instead of numpy arrays or dtypes.
* Fixed `augmenters.geometric.PerspectiveTransform` producing invalid
  polygons (more often with higher `scale` values). #338
* Fixed errors caused by `external/poly_point_isect_py2py3.py` related to
  floating point inaccuracies (changed an epsilon from `1e-10` to `1e-4`,
  rounded some floats). #338
* Fixed `Superpixels` breaking when a sampled `n_segments` was `<=0`.
  `n_segments` is now treated as `1` in these cases.
* Fixed `ReplaceElementwise` both allowing and disallowing dtype `int64`. #346
* Fixed `BoundingBox.deepcopy()` creating only shallow copies of labels. #356
* Fixed `dtypes.change_dtypes_()` #366
    * Fixed argument `round` being ignored if input images were a list.
    * Fixed failure if input images were a list and dtypes a single numpy
      dtype function.
* Fixed `dtypes.get_minimal_dtype()` failing if argument `arrays` contained
  not *exactly* two items. #366
* Fixed calls of `CloudLayer.get_parameters()` resulting in errors. #309
* Fixed `SimplexNoiseAlpha` and `FrequencyNoiseAlpha` not handling
  `sigmoid` argument correctly. #343
* Fixed `SnowflakesLayer` crashing for grayscale images. #345
* Fixed `Affine` heatmap augmentation crashing for arrays with more than
  four channels and `order!=0`. #381
* Fixed an outdated error message in `Affine`. #381
* Fixed `Polygon.clip_out_of_image()` crashing if the intersection between
  polygon and image plane was an edge or point. #382
* Fixed `Polygon.clip_out_of_image()` potentially failing for polygons
  containing two or fewer points. #382
* Fixed `Polygon.is_out_of_image()` returning wrong values if the image plane
  was fully contained inside the polygon with no intersection between the
  image plane and the polygon edge. #382
* Fixed  `Fliplr` and `Flipud` using for coordinate-based inputs and image-like
  inputs slightly different conditions for when to actually apply
  augmentations. #385
* Fixed `Convolve` using an overly restrictive check when validating inputs
  for `matrix` w.r.t. whether they are callables. The check should now also
  support class methods (and possibly various other callables). #407
* Fixed `CropAndPad`, `Pad` and `PadToFixedSize` still clipping `cval` samples
  to the `uint8`. They now clip to the input array's dtype's value range. #407
* Fixed `WithColorspace` not propagating polygons to child augmenters. #409
* Fixed `WithHueAndSaturation` not propagating segmentation maps and polygons
  to child augmenters. #409
* Fixed `AlphaElementwise` to blend coordinates (for keypoints, polygons,
  line strings) on a point-by-point basis following the image's average
  alpha value in the sampled alpha mask of the point's coordinate.
  Previously, the average over the whole mask was used and then either all
  points of the first branch or all of the second branch were used as the
  augmentation output. This also affects `SimplexNoiseAlpha` and
  `FrequencyNoiseAlpha`. #410
